All right.
So let's do a couple of exercises with the constant multiple rules.
So first one says find f prime of X if f of x equals 3 x to the 8.
So the constant multiple here is three and it's multiplying this x to the 8.
I'll let you pause the video and give it a shot.
All right.
So remember are a constant multiple rule says.
It says if you have a constant multiplying a function you can leave the constant outside get the derivative
of the function and then multiply the constant back end.
So here we have a constant and we have a power function.
So we're going to use both the constant multiple rule and the power rule.
All right.
So a derivative is
or a constant.
We put it on the side so we have three times the derivative of the function x to the 8.
So we just bring down our dictator eight and we substitute by a last power for leader so eight minus
one that becomes a seven.
So sometimes I'm not going to put the actual 8 minus 1.
I'll just go straight to the 7.
And once you're comfortable with the power rule you can do that too.
So just remember that we substitute a less powerful leader.
So eight minus one becomes a seven.
All right.
And finally we'll just multiply the two constants Three times eight.
That gives us 24 x to the seventh and we are done.
That is our answer.
All right.
Moving on to our next exercise find prime of X if f of x equals 9 x I'll let you pause a video and give
it a shot.
OK.
So let's find the derivative are a constant is nine.
So we put it on the side and we get the derivative of X..
Now remember what is the derivative of x.
So we bring down a dictator so our dictator is actually won right.
To the one we just don't market.
So we really have to bring it down because it's going to make a difference.
Right.
And then we substitute a less powerful one.
So we have one minus one on top.
That's going to be nine times X to zero.
Now remember anything to 0 is 1.
Right.
So this becomes a one
that gives nine times one which is nothing
and 9 is our answer.
All right so anytime you have this form or you have a constant times X and X you know is only to the
first power not to the second or third just x by itself then the derivative is always going to be just
the constant.
But again it's just super easy to do is go ahead and put the constant aside get the derivative of X.
That's going to give you one and you stay with the constant at the end.
So that is nine.
All right for a last example find prime of X if X equals negative 10 x to the negative 10.
I'll let you pause the video and try it out.
All right.
So the same thing we need to use the constant multiple rule for the negative 10.
And then the power rule for the X to the negative 10 derivative of this is we put a constant on the
side.
So we put this negative 10 here we multiply by our dictator which we need to bring down.
So this negative 10 comes down multiplying
and then and we have X substituted by a less powerful leader.
So negative 10 minus 1 and what do we have we have negative 10 times negative 10 10 times 10 is 100.
Now they're both negative.
Remember that when two things are negative and you multiply them they become positive.
So this negative 10 times negative 10 becomes a hundred
right.
And then you have X to the if you owe $10 and you spend one more then you're going oh 11
and that is your answer.
Now if this had been for example of x.
This is another quick example half of X equals 10 x to the negative 10.
So to get the derivative of this one we do the same thing.
I just want to show you something with science.
So we'll put the 10 on this side.
We're bring down a dictator negative 10 and the exponent becomes negative 11.
As you know.
So in this case you have positive 10 times negative 10 positive times a negative is a negative.
Right.
So this is negative.
One hundred X to the negative 11.
All right so remember if you multiply two positive or two negatives the result is positive.
I'll put this right here.
So if it's positive times positive or negative times negative then the result is positive.
On the other hand if you have a positive times and negative or a negative times a positive then the
result is negative.
In other words same sign positive results different sign negative results.
So these here are the same sign.
And these here are different signs.
Right.
And this works for both multiplication and division.
So if you have two things that are dividing and they have the same sign the result is positive.
If you have two things that are dividing but there are different signs then the result is negative.
All right.
That is pretty much it for our constant multiple rule.
And a quick reminder remember you have to do your homework whatever your professor assigned to you.
You have to do it.
I like to do exercises so we can put into practice and to get just started.
However the homework assignments that you get from your class are going to be the ones that determine
what's going to be in the exams.
So you're always always always have to do those.
Don't get lazy don't come here and just do the ones that I give you because again this is not enough
practice.
You need to do the ones that you get assigned.
So I don't give you a ton of exercises because I want you to do the ones that your professor gives you
every basis calculus class is different.
There's not a one size fits all.
So you have to do your homework.
All right and I'll see you in the next Tauriel.